in 2014 alan eustace jumped from a
balloon
floating in the upper layers of the
stratosphere allen reached supersonic
speeds
and at some point lost control of his
free flight but eventually
he landed safe and sound setting a world
record
no one's been able to break since but
what if someone
meaning you decided to jump down to
earth
from the international space station
you're getting ready for your
record-breaking
stunt you're wearing a spacesuit because
there's no
breathable air so high above the ground
three
two one go you leap into the open space
and are being carried away by inertia
the iss isn't just hanging there it's
moving at a breakneck
speed faster than a jet airplane so will
you
at first also be flying in orbit and
circling the planet
the force of gravity won't let you fly
away from earth but to slow down and
fall through the atmosphere
you'll have to wait for at least two
years luckily
you have thrust engines built into your
spacesuit so
you turn them on and direct yourself
against the force of inertia
you slow yourself down to make it a real
free fall
and dodge the space debris floating in
orbit alongside you
finally you turn off the engines and
begin falling for real now
you're gaining speed at an enormous pace
and in no time
you've broken the sound barrier the
temperatures out here are freezing
but your suit is giving you a high
temperature warning instead
the friction of the speeding suit
against the molecules of air
is enough to generate over 3000 degrees
of heat
if the suit were made of iron it would
melt right now
at the same time the acceleration makes
you withstand about eight g's of gravity
that's eight times more than on the
ground level for comparison
jet fighter pilots are trained to
withstand about 5 g's
the air resistance is also against you
if it wasn't for your super suit
the drag would have simply torn you to
pieces the heat
the pressure and the drag are exactly
the reasons why asteroids fall apart
more often than not
when entering the earth's atmosphere
falling through those layers
you gradually slow down but the height
and the initial acceleration were so
great
you're still moving at three times the
speed of sound you need to turn on the
thrust engines again to be able to
deploy your parachute
at a half a miles altitude you do just
that
and peacefully descend onto the ground
at last
whew that was fun and you need more than
that
what about other planets if you were to
jump from the skies of venus
you'd feel almost the same tug of
gravity as on earth
so the drag and the pressure would be
quite similar at first
but the heat would be very different up
in the venusian atmosphere are dense and
permanent clouds of acid
that heat up the planet's surface to
unbearable temperatures
falling through those given that your
suit saves you from the acid itself
you would experience about twice the
heat as the fall
through the earth's atmosphere and when
you finally get to a half
miles height above the ground you need a
heat resistant parachute
because the air is around 800 degrees
fahrenheit
the landing is going to be surprisingly
soft though the air density is
comparable to earth's
and despite the huge atmospheric
pressure it doesn't really affect the
glide
so you'd be able to safely step on the
scorched and burnt ground of the
smoldering planet
if you've found a way to glide in
perpetual hurricane winds that blow all
across venus of course
okay what about mars here the atmosphere
is a lot less dense than
on either earth or on venus so your free
flight would be much less extreme
you'd have to die from a lower altitude
because otherwise
you wouldn't even land on the red planet
its force of gravity wouldn't be much
even the sound barrier on mars is
reached at much higher speeds
the air is so thin that molecules have
to travel a lot further to bounce off
each other and create sound waves
landing won't be an easy feat either the
thin air isn't enough to support a
regular parachute
so you'd basically just fall a little
slower
small comfort for more or less safe
glide you'd need a much
bigger surface area of your parachute
but that would increase its mass
too and you'd still end up as a blob on
the martian ground
what you really need to stay alive are
your trusty thrust engines
on saturn the second largest planet in
the solar system
there's no hard surface at all after all
it's a gas
giant first of all jumping onto it or
rather
into it would mean passing through its
rings they're composed of ice and rock
fragments
and you'd have to use your thrusters
again to avoid collision
once you're out of the rings you'd be
entering the atmosphere
which is harsh the winds on saturn reach
supersonic speeds
unless you'd be carrying a super heavy
ballast you'd just be carried away
and probably torn apart by those crazy
air torrents
but let's say you've survived and fell
through the outer layers of saturn's
atmosphere
the planet mostly consists of hydrogen
and helium
which become denser the closer they are
to the core
right until they're pretty much solid so
you'd be feeling as if you were diving
into water
moving slower and slower until you
finally stopped progressing at all
no parachute needed your landing would
be soft anyways
if you can call getting stuck in liquid
helium a soft landing
of course now let's move on to jupiter
the largest gas giant in the solar
system it doesn't have a hard surface
either
although its winds are not as vicious as
on saturn
jupiter has the biggest storm that ever
existed
the great red spot if you were
unfortunate enough to fall from the sky
right into it
you'd be shredded into thousands of
pieces and blown with the wind
but let's say you avoided the storm and
fell into the atmosphere
again you wouldn't need a parachute to
land because
there's nowhere to land exactly you've
been able to withstand the winds of
saturn
so the local gales would be no match for
you
just be careful not to lose your oxygen
tank there's no breathable
air on jupiter within several hours of
free fall
you get to the point where gases become
liquid and then solidify
and you'd be stuck in them again only
the thrust engines would be able to help
you come out
from jupiter we travel to uranus another
gas giant
which is blue and looks almost exactly
like its brother neptune
the winds here are only slightly weaker
than on saturn
and it's bitterly cold to boot falling
through uranus's atmosphere is nothing
really special
you'd be plummeting down with the more
or less normal speed
supersonic of course heating up as you
go through the layers of gas
the landing is pretty much common now
falling right into the gas clouds that
soon become liquid and then
solid the difference is extreme cold and
the pleasant blue color of your
surroundings
neptune is an ice giant but don't be
fooled it also consists of gas
it's called an ice one because
temperature on it is about halfway to
absolute zero
so if you were to fall through neptune's
atmosphere and onto its surface
you'd be disappointed no kind of
friction would help you melt after you
get frozen to the bone
as a result you'd probably reach the
solidified gas surrounding the planet's
core
but only as an icicle finally as a
reward for all these mishaps
let's go to the most interesting planet
to fall onto
titan it's not even a planet since it's
a natural satellite of saturn's
thick atmosphere combined with weak
gravity make this moon perfect for
gliding and flying
you'd be able to enjoy your free fall
without much discomfort
deploy your parachute without hurry and
marvel at the views of the rocky planet
from above